# Extensions

**CAVEAT**  Nothing implemented yet.  These are just design notes.

The plugin architecture is central to DITA-OT.  But installing a
plugin alters the state of the toolkit itself.  That seems like a bad
idea.  E.g. plugin config files use "pre-defined extension points to
locate changes, and integrates those changes into the core code."  I'm
not sure yet what "integrates .. into core code" means exactly but I
don't much like the sound of it; I should think the better idea is to
extend the core functionality by adding stuff outside, not injecting
outside stuff into it.

To be clear: it's not that adding a plugin should not change some kind
of state, it's just that such mutable data should be isolated from the
immutable "kernel" of the toolkit, and it should be easy to examine
and fix.

Case in point:  `lib/org.dita.dost.platform/plugin.properties`

This properties file is generated by running the plugin installation
task, so it is not to be manually edited.  Nothing wrong with that;
but it's in the wrong place.  On *nix systems, common practice is to
put mutable configuration data like this somewhere in the `/var`
hierarchy.  Windows, I dunno, but in any case it should not be
embedded in the toolkit installation proper (IMHO).

DITA-OT uses static "extension points".  This means plugins modify the
toolkit.

dita-clj pursues a different strategy, using "hooks" to support
runtime-only extensions.  Each project can hang bits of code on the
hooks, which effectively extend the functionality of the toolkit at
runtime.

Under this strategy the toolkit itself is never modified.  A dita-clj
plugin is code, resources, etc. invoked via a hook at runtime.
Plugins are not "installed" in the toolkit, although they may be
lodged in a well-known location so that they become available to
projects.

Search path for plugins: ideally, follow the standard pattern: put
system level stuff somewhere like `/etc`, local stuff somewher in
`/usr/local`, and user stuff somewhere in `~/`, like `~/.dita`.
(Presumably there is some kind of analogous best-practice for
Windows.)

Using plugins: the hook mechanism will be enabled by leiningen
keywords in the project.clj file for each project.  See the leiningen
template dita-template.
